---
id: ps-intro
title: Introduction
sidebar_position: 1
---

`ProofService` provides a DID service to build a connection between
asymmetric cryptography (currently elliptic curve) and other identity
provider (other asymmetric cryptography ID, Web2.0 identity provider,
etc).

## Features

### Two-way binding

Missing proof material will make this binding status
[downgraded](ps-glossary#glossary-downgrade).

### Publicly verifiable

[Proof post](ps-glossary#glossary-proof-post) should be anonymously
accessible. Any user / service / program can verify this binding
without much cost.

### Blockchain-like anti-falsifying mechanism

Every changes made by user are
[chained](ps-glossary#glossary-proof-chain) and signed by user's
[avatar](ps-glossary#glossary-avatar).

### Downgrading detection

ProofService will tell user a record is
[invalid](ps-glossary#glossary-downgrade) right now, if queried user
deletes his / her [proof post](ps-glossary#glossary-proof-post) after
successfully creating a [binding](ps-glossary#glossary-binding).

We encourage user to keep their proof materials as long as they can,
to let other people / program re-validate them later.

### Arweave backup

Each [ProofChain](ps-glossary#glossary-proof-chain) is backed up onto
Arweave to let the whole system become more neutral.

## Design goal

ProofService is designed to prove "An
[Identity](ps-glossary#glossary-identity) and an
[Avatar](ps-glossary#glossary-avatar) are held by a same person".

Separate this assertion into 2 parts:

1. "I" hold this [Avatar](ps-glossary#glossary-avatar) right now.
2. "I" hold this [identity](ps-glossary#glossary-identity) right now.

The ability of `1` is equivalent to "Generate a signature using secret key of this Persona".

The ability of `2` is equivalent to "Make an action using this identity".

To reach `1` and `2` at the same time, we're using [Proof post](ps-glossary#glossary-proof-post) mechanism:

1. Let user publicly post a "specific content" using [identity](ps-glossary#glossary-identity) on target [platform](ps-glossary#glossary-platform).
2. The "specific content" is a signature generated by [Avatar](ps-glossary#glossary-avatar).
3. ProofService server (and other users who want to verify this
   binding later) reads this public post, extracts signature from post
   content, and verifies this signature.
